So now that I've
given you an overview
of the completable futures
version of the ImageStreamGang
example, let's start talking
about how we can actually
apply completable futures in
order to do the processing.
And so I'll show
you basically, layer
by layer, or
intermediate operation
by intermediate operation, and
terminal operation as well,
how we can apply the completable
futures mechanisms to make
this example really scream.
So as always, the entry point
into this ImageStreamGang
will be the processStream
hook method,
just like it was
for the version we
looked at that was implemented
using parallel streams.
And if you look carefully
at the bottom of the slide,
you'll see that the file that
this implementation comes from
is called
ImageStreamCompletableFuture1.
And the reason that it's called
ImageStreamComputableFuture1
is that there's also an
ImageStreamCompletableFuture2
implementation looking
in that folder.
And so perhaps in a
synchronous session
we'll have a chance to look at
the alternative implementation,
but I just wanted to
focus on this one first.
It's pretty cool.
The first thing we
do is exactly like we
do with the parallel
streams version.
We get the list of URLs.
And again, that was provided
by the user through a GUI,
through command line, through
precompiled files that we use
for testing purposes, whatever.
That's just, the input
comes from somewhere.
Once we have that
list of URLs, we
combine the Java streams with
completable futures, which
are lurking behind those
behaviors we're passing
into the intermediate
operations of the stream
in order to be able to
carry out the computations.
The first thing
we do, of course,
is, we take the URLs
list, and we convert it
into a stream of URLs.
From here on out,
everything is very
different from the parallel
streams implementation,
even though the overall flow of
control looks roughly similar.
But the implementations
are wildly different.
So the first thing
we're going to do
is, we're going to
asynchronously check
to see if images have already
been downloaded and cached
locally.
And what happens here-- and
we'll look at this in a bit
more detail, but what
map() is doing is,
it's converting a stream of URLs
into a stream of completable
futures to optional URLs.
Now, that's a bit of
a mouthful, and I'll
explain why we're doing
all this stuff later.
It's really pretty cool.
But it has to do a lot
with the differences
between synchronous and
asynchronous processing
in the context of Java streams.
We'll look shortly
at the implementation
of the checkUrlCacheAsync method
reference we're showing here.
What comes out of
this, of course,
will be a stream of completable
futures to optional URLs.
That stream then gets fed into
the next map in the pipeline.
And this map will call the
downloadImageAsync method
reference in order to be able
to asynchronously download
each non-cached image
at the given URL.
So that's basically
what we're going
to do there at a high level.
And of course, we'll
look at this code
here shortly, so you're
not mystified for too
long as how this really works.
This call to map()
converts these URLs,
this stream of
futures, to URLs--
that are optional, of
course, as you'll see--
to a stream of
image futures that
are in the process
of downloading.
So what's going to
happen there is,
we're going to take in
a stream of URL futures.
And as they
complete, we're going
to end up with an output
stream of image futures
that are in the
process of downloading.
That stream of completable
futures to optional images
will then be piped into flatMap.
And flatMap, map
as you may recall,
is this really interesting
intermediate operation
that can return less
than, greater than,
or equal to the number of stream
elements it gets in its input
stream in its output stream.
And what this
flatMap method will
do, this intermediate
operation, is
it will invoke the
applyFiltersAsync behavior
through the applyFiltersAsync
method reference.
And that will asynchronously
filter and store
the downloaded images
onto the local file system
when they're done downloading.
So the behaviors
there, of course,
won't do anything-- the
processing won't happen
until the image is downloaded.
flatMap will convert
the image futures
as they complete to a
filtered set of image futures
that are in the process of
transforming and storing.
Now, what we end
up here is a stream
of completable futures
to optional images
that are in the process of
being transformed and stored.
And they may actually
be downloading,
for all we know, at this point.
So what we're going to do is,
we're going to call collect.
And collect is going to
trigger everything else we just
talked about, set all
the wheels in motion,
start doing all the
asynchronous processing,
and it will use the
toFuture factory method
to create a single completable
future that will then
be used to logically
wait for all
the asynchronous
operations, associated
with all the string
of futures it
gets, to finish their
processing in the background.
So again, we're getting a
single completable future
that we're going to be able to
use to reactively do something
when all of the
asynchrony is done.
And believe me, there's a lot
of asynchrony running around
at this point.
After that
[? CompletableFuture ?]
triggers, meaning
that everything's
done running asynchronously,
at that point,
we're going to go ahead and log
the results and basically say,
we got this many
images with this size
and so on and so forth.
So this will log the results
after everything is done.
And the final method in this
long, fluent chain of calls
will be the join method.
Now, this is interesting,
because all the methods
ahead of this--
well, at least stream, map,
map, flatMap, and collect--
those are all streams methods.
Then apply and join are
completable futures methods.
So we're going to
use join in order
to block until everything has
been checked for whether it's
cached, downloaded, if it
wasn't processed, and stored.
This is the one and
only call to join
in the entire implementation
strategy, which
is a huge win, because it
means we can let everything
run in parallel asynchronously
in the background
and not artificially slow
things down by trying
to synchronize prematurely.
So big no-no in the context
of completable futures
if you want them to run fast.